# Airbnb Seattle 
Author: Enzo Rocha  linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/enzo-de-almeida-santana-rocha-24a32a10b/ 

## 1- Business Understanding
With the launch of Airbnb in 2008, there has been a huge growth in hosts over the years. The Airbnb Seattle dataset is a dataset that demonstrates some data collected from the launch in 2008 until the year 2016. This dataset is present in the kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/airbnb/seattle/data .

The database Calendar, including listing id and the price and availability for that day;
The database Reviews, including unique id for each reviewer and detailed comments;
The database Listings, including full descriptions and average review score.
This notebook is a technical part of the article : https://enzo-santanarocha.medium.com/se-hospedando-com-o-python-2ea7208dfd7a

### Import of librarians
At first I imported the necessary libraries:
numpy
pandas
matplotlib
seaborn
 
 ## 2- Data Understanding
 We look at how many rows and columns each base has. We also look at the type of the variable and its quantities.
 
 ## 3- Preparation
 We prepared the numerical data. Many of them were unformatted. They have "$", "%" and ",". For this reason, a function was created that handles these formats and immediately afterwards moves to float.
 
 ## 4 - Data Modelling
 I opted for forecasting models for other projects. Here, I want to further explore the vision and discuss the responses to reality without making any statistical models. My questions about the base did not require changes.
 
 ### def plot_varyear(df, var_date,var_plot):

    INPUT:
        df = type(DataFrame) Dataframe that you would like to use.
        var_date = type(string) variable on the date you want to extract the year to create the year variable.
        var_plot =  type(string) The variable you want to plot per year
        
    OUTPUT:
        plot = of the var_plot per year
        base_vizinho = Base de entrada reduzida com todas as 10 primeiras vizinhanças.
        
  ### def dividing_property(df):
    INPUT:
        df: DataFrame that I want see per property
        
    OUTPUT:
        Dataframe with the 10 largest number of property types per neighborhood. 
        
  ### def plot_media_scores(var):

    INPUT:
    var: type(str); This is the variable you want to cross with the average score and see in the plot; 
    
    OUTPUT:
    plot: provides a bar graph where the X axis is the variable and the Y axis is the median score
        
 ## 5- Evaluation
 3 questions were asked:
 
### how was the growth of host subscriptions per year?
For that, I used the variable 'host_since' and 'neighborhood_group_cleansed'. Because I wanted to know this growth by neighborhood. The result of the plot_varyear function are two similar graphs. What differentiates them is that one is cracked and the other is not.

### What is the largest type of property by neighborhood?
This question was answered using a table resulting from the dividing_property function. In order not to be a very large table, we configured for the function to return the first 10 count of properties by regions in descending order.

The 'base_vizinho' base was used as input. This base is generated by the last function. This is because the 'base_vizinhos' is the df_listing base, but reduced to the data of the first 10 neighborhoods selected in the previous function. Recalling that this was done to facilitate visualization, since the smallest quantities do not interest me in this analysis specifically.

### Is there a difference between superhosts and normal hosts?
this question was answered with a plot where it is possible to visually show the average score divided by a chosen variable. The chosen one for this question was 'host_is_superhost'. It was entered in the plot_media_scores function.

## 6- Deployment
All results were commented on in an article format on the Medium platform, at the following link: https://enzo-santanarocha.medium.com/se-hospedando-com-o-python-2ea7208dfd7a .
